docs: Fondant integration docs (#421)
qdrant/landing_page: qdrant-landing/content/documentation/integrations/fondant.md

---
title: ML6 Fondant
weight: 1700
---

# ML6 Fondant

[Fondant](https://fondant.ai/en/stable/) is an open-source framework that aims to simplify and speed up large-scale data processing by making containerized components reusable across pipelines and execution environments.

Fondant features a Qdrant component image to load textual data and embeddings into a the database.

## Usage

<aside role="status">

> A Qdrant collection has to be created in advance with the appropriate configurations.
> https://qdrant.tech/documentation/concepts/collections/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Qdrant collection has to be <a href="documentation/concepts/collections/">created in advance</a>
```
